[Music]
four types of toxic cookware to avoid
and for safe alternatives most people
these days are well aware of the
importance of eating healthy however not
everyone knows that the cookware you use
to prepare your dishes is just as
important as the food itself even the
healthiest diet can result in severe
health complication if your pots and
pans are toxic if you're ready to find
out what those dangers are which
cookware to avoid and what's safer
alternatives you can replace them with
then keep on watching one Teflon
cookware Teflon is probably the biggest
offender on this list so we'll start off
strong many people choose this nonstick
material because it's convenient and
easy to find yet they have no idea that
it's also the most dangerous the
nonstick properties of Teflon cookware
are achieved with a coating of PTFE or
polytetrafluoroethylene this is a
plastic polymer that when heated above
572 degrees Fahrenheit starts to release
toxins these toxic fumes lead to
flu-like symptoms called polymer fume
fever informally known as Teflon flu
people begin to suffer from headaches
chills and high temperature because
Teflon fumes do the most damage on the
lungs people usually feel tightness in
their chest and start coughing the
symptoms don't even appear right after a
person has breathed in the fumes but a
couple of hours later and it's not just
dangerous to people
Teflon fumes are also fatal to pet birds
like parrots another chemical compound
found in Teflon cookware is pfoa or for
fluoro octa Noack acid this man-made
chemical is also known as c8 it's
especially threatening since it tends to
stay in the body as well as the
environment for long periods of time
recent studies both in the lab and on
humans have found a link between this
substance and several types of cancer
including breast prostate and ovarian
cancer
while it's believed that the PFOA
president teflon products is in such
small amounts that it poses no threat to
people it's worth noting that this stuff
is also found in tons of other things
you come in contact with every single
day like the water you drink the amount
depends on the area where you live but
in any case it's best to limit your
exposure to PFOA if you can you can find
nonstick cookware that's free of PTFE
and PFOA but it's usually coated with
something like granite this coating is
safe to use as long as it's intact but
unfortunately it's thin and chips easily
as soon as it starts coming off you have
to stop using that cookware item
immediately try this safe alternative
instead real cast iron this is a
non-toxic cooking option that truly
withstands the test of time it heats
well and evenly throughout Plus cast
iron cookware even comes in nonstick
varieties it doesn't leak anything toxic
into your food and is actually a nice
natural way to increase your body's iron
levels and if your body doesn't need an
iron boost then you can try an am old
cast iron cookware which is just as safe
and convenient to use to aluminum
cookware and aluminum foil it's no
surprise that aluminum is so widely used
besides being a most abundant metal out
there it's also very strong lightweight
versatile and recyclable
however it's not without hidden dangers
aluminum is a neurotoxic material
elevated levels of aluminum in the body
have been linked to several nervous
system diseases including Alzheimer's
and ALS though aluminum cookware is
usually coated the coating is prone to
chipping allowing the toxic metal to get
right into your food as for aluminum
foil using it while cooking is even more
dangerous in fact there's an established
safe amount of aluminum the human body
can manage daily and that's 20
milligrams per pound of body weight
today
when you wrap your food in aluminum foil
and cook it this way
the amount of this substance that leaks
into the food significantly exceeds the
permissible level and if you add a
siddik lemon to the Fischer baking it
starts aggressively breaking down layers
and layers of aluminum letting them seep
into your dinner that's why you should
use foil only to wrap cold foods and
leftovers in try this safe alternative
instead glass cookware this is another
safe option to consider
it'll never release anything toxic when
heated it doesn't hold on to any old
flavors or odors and it's not only
durable but also eco-friendly the only
downside of glass cookware is that it
isn't nonstick but that's just a small
price to pay for your health and safety
3 copper cookware you've probably seen
copper cookware in stores and noticed
how pretty of us you're likely to have
heard of it's amazing conductive
properties that allow for quick and even
heating but did you know that copper can
actually be dangerous when used in
cookware just like with a lot of metals
the human body needs copper in small
amounts but if the body gets too much of
the stuff it can lead to
life-threatening complications and
copper cookware especially when it isn't
coded can easily send you to the ER with
a bad case of metal poisoning and that's
because it can release copper when you
cook acidic foods so if you've just
enjoyed some fish and lemon juice or
stewed tomatoes cooked with an uncoated
copper pot and you find yourself
suffering from extremely unpleasant
symptoms such as vomiting blood
lightheadedness yellowy skin or
gastrointestinal distress among others
call 9-1-1 immediately and even if your
cookware is coated the coating often
contains nickel which is another toxic
element nickel exposure can lead to
problems with the liver and kidneys it
can also cause high blood pressure heart
disease and an increased risk of lung
cancer
try this safe alternative instead
stainless steel this is a great cookware
option it's relatively lightweight
scratch resistant and comes in nonstick
varieties
it'll also last you a really long time
just make sure you're buying food grade
stainless steel since this is the only
type that doesn't contain any nickel or
chromium for ceramic coated cookware
this type of cookware looks nice and
seems like a safe option at first after
all 100% ceramic is completely safe for
cooking
however ceramic coating usually hides
some pretty nasty stuff in it
soft ceramic coating isn't durable
enough and starts chipping after a few
months of daily use when this happens
lead and cadmium sometimes found in the
coating will end up in your food and
thus in your body lead poisoning is one
of the most dangerous types of metal
poisoning and can result in abdominal
pain headaches infertility and often
other health complications in severe
cases it can even lead to coma and death
as for cadmium it's toxic even in the
tiniest amounts if it gets into your
body it will negatively impact all your
various systems starting with the
cardiovascular and reproductive ones and
then moving on to your kidneys eyes and
brain in men it messes with testosterone
levels and damages prostate function it
can also do a real number on your bones
yeah none of this sounds very pleasant
does it even when ceramic coating is
lead-free or doesn't contain cadmium
chipped cookware can still present a
danger because it's usually neurotoxic
aluminium hiding under that coating try
this safe alternative instead 100%
ceramic cookware this is one of the best
and safest options out there since it's
made with completely natural materials
it isn't toxic and it won't ship or peel
off it's also nonstick and dishwasher
safe it's only downside is that 100%
ceramic can be pretty costly but
it will last you a very long time plus
after everything we've talked about
today and all those horrible symptoms
caused by toxic cookware don't you think
it's worth the investment did any of
your cookware make this blacklist or do
you use the safe alternatives which
one's your favorite tell us in the
comments below don't forget to click
subscribe to stay on the bright side of
life
[Music]